People aren't really thinking about this, to be to be useful, useful, or, I guess, useful, practical, and really helpful.
Not a threat, not a threat. This is really helping you right.
And I think that's I think that's the that's an important takeaway for people to hear from their colleagues, from their peers, from other other teachers.
Only the people who care about it are interested are, gonna listen!
I gotta read it and listen to it, anyway. So you're not to worry about people who aren't interested. I guess they're not even gonna see it.
I tell myself all that time.
Just say what you wanna say.
Okay. Thanks. Dalton. Who else wants to talk about what they found, or maybe what, even when someone else found it?
Take a little bit of time for this. Then we'll get on to tonight.
More specialty. But.
I found it interesting, using Chat Gpt to help me like narrow research that I was doing and help me.
Get to the heart of a question I had, or so I thought so.
I did a little considering my work. I did a little bit of research on like what it's like to study.
AI, if you're going to go to grad school for it to understand, like how those programs are designed.
Yeah.
And it is pretty hard to sift through a bunch of like marketing materials for something like that, because I think a lot of universities are trying to seize the moment and market their programs in go in asking what that learning experience is like to chat Gbp, I did get some answers just
the ways that you might city robotics and mathematics and computing, and also ethics and philosophy.
And then so I. And then, when we were doing some of the discussion forums, I also found that it was much easier to get answers to research questions. I had.
If I was just trying to like, gain more knowledge on a topic, it almost felt like.
This is like a more like a directed formal of Wikipedia.
Uhhuh.
However, I was talking to a good friend of mine who's a lawyer, and he was saying that he is some of his calls for playing around with Chat Tbt, and literally like sometimes like you really have to question the accuracy of what you're getting in there because like they were literally like legal cases
that Jack Dbd. Cited, that were just made up so.
I don't know. Yeah, like the accuracy of the information that we are getting from Chat.
Yeah.
Gbt like it's not really cited and like, so I'm as much as I'm excited for it.
I'm trying to understand, like, how useful it can be for trying to get more niche knowledge.
And then, like, is that also helpful way to you know, we always were concerned, about, especially at the outside Wikipedia, like, Oh, well, students, just use Wikipedia, especially when it's an accurate well, it seems like Chat Qpt.
Can be similar.
Yes, I mean to me it feels a lot more like the kinds of stuff I'd see written on blogs that are that are still are very useful, but they're not usually very rigorous.
They can be, but more often than not, you know it's more generalization and kinds of things, and telling stories about something, maybe having a link to an example or something like that maybe a reference or 2.
But it doesn't seem to be doing. It doesn't seem to have that capability.
And I think it's probably because of how it's being trained.
And what is learning from because it's learning, I think, from publicly available stuff it can find on the Internet.
I, you know. Actually, that I'd be very interested in know how these things are.
Actually, you know, what is the database, and I think I think that's the database.
Right.
Primarily, I don't think it's to be deep into, like all of the database that are available on line of you know, reference articles like Pub met, or things like that, and maybe it is.
But I don't think so, cause it cause, if if you think about it, I don't know as I think about, I should say if it was looking that deep into things like that.
Wow! That's that. Maybe it is that big of a training kind of information that that's it's being trained on.
Or why it does these. The responses are so fast, literally a second right or 2, and it starts answering most most of the questions I've asked it starts answering pretty quickly, pretty quickly.
And Tony, I know, is I don't think is here.
Live with us, has paid pays for the upgrade he pays for the $20 a month, and I don't know if he's getting, you know, quicker responses, or if he's getting more detailed responses or anything like that.
But that at some point may become part of the part of the business model.
For tools like this, especially, you know, for the for the publicly publicly available tool access.
You. You want more depth, pay for it. You want more speed, you pay for it right?
And that that's also a selling. If these tools can do that at some point that could be a really powerful sailing point to go into someone else's system, though, of course, hey, use our system, and we can get you this through our AI you know our open AI
powered, you know, whatever you wanna call it.
Helper!
So do you think it's gonna get? I mean, would it be helpful to have these language models actually offer, you know which database do you want to pull the data from right?
Or is it just not enough data? Does it really need a much, much more massive?
You know Brad, of data from the Internet to properly act as a language model, or like, like the pub met example. I really like right.
Right. If it's just published. Yeah, papers.
What if she's looking from that?
Yeah, well, I have no idea how long it would take for it to kind of build the ability to create answers like it's doing now from a specific data set.
If it's not already, it's not already data that's in there.
There's gotta be a time time period for that to happen.
You know, just for it, and I think a lot of it depends upon the rigor and how well trained it has to be for it to be really functional.
And you know it really interesting to hear. Maybe there's some stuff out there we could find where someone could find the share with us already.
Hear someone talk about some of those pragmatic details about how this is really working, because understanding more about how it really works can sometimes help us better understand what you know, what we can trust it for.
And where we should be suspect right? And when we worked, when the university worked with Eab on our advising systems, I may have mentioned that before, but we were training a model.
They would not tell us, they would not show us. You know exactly how they're creating their recommendations or their their determinations as a student is at risk.
This is not that's proprietary, and we don't share that.
They could talk about General. Well, we look at this kind of stuff, and we look at this kind of stuff and we look at this kind of stuff.
But we have data scientists on our own campus is said, we wanna know what you're doing with our students.
Data. And of course they said no. And the university said, Okay, well, we asked cause they wanted the service.
And so so anyway, we don't know. Then we may never know unless you're on unless you're on the inside of this.
So what we need is an insider. Actually, I know some people computer science over across the across the campus and maybe some over there could give me some leads on how I could find out. You know, in a way that might be interesting to you guys alright. Anything else.
You're all part of this.
No one wants to talk about their stuff.
Linda got so good look she got cited not only in this document, but also brought it over into the discussion.
Actually goes to cited in the chat tonight, too. Talk about impact.
Oh, Hi! Oh, thanks, Alton! I didn't see the chat, so I guess I guess I can kinda talk about it a little bit.
I drew you in. Okay?
No, it's okay. I don't mind.
It's okay. So I kind of started wondering about.
I mean chat. It is amazing. It can do it. A lot of things, but sort of wondering about the authenticating, I think.
Alright authentication. How do we authenticate the information that it's generating?
So cause it gotta pullool be pulling their information from a certain data source.
Right, and I was wondering, how do we? What if it's pulling their data?
The generating the answers from like not correct data source.
So I just ask a question. My prom was, how do we authenticate information?
Generate from AI, so it can't kind of give me a general answer, saying, what's indicating?
It generate information. Driver AI can be a complex, but there's a way you to cross check it, basically about online.
And it gave me like 5 prompts or 5 ways.
Hmm!
How we can authenticate it. But it's all about.
People have it, humans having to kind of double check the fact source of it.
Right.
So which I thought was pretty interesting. So I was like, Okay, I mean, and then this kinda reminded me of I don't know if you guys use turn it in.com before I you know, high school, I used it.
It's basically a pleasure isn't detecting. I guess.
Saw sights. I haven't used it since high school, so I don't know how much it got better.
But before, when I was in high school, the problem it had was it was flagging.
Things were pleasurized. Things like word like the or that, or something very simple, or if it's like a site from something else, and obviously, if it's like a apiece of citation, it's probably in the same or similar for a lot of people, and those keep flagging, as if it was
like pleasurize. So it was simple. It was meant well, but it wasn't perfect, so.
But I was kinda like I don't know like I was a lot of thoughts on my head, and I didn't really get to the bottom of like, oh, how do we action themicated like by yourself like AI.
So other than it was telling me. Oh, you have to vindicate it!
You have to double check it. So it was. I thought it was pretty interesting.
It didn't do everything for us. Yeah.
Right, right, yeah. You know, I I think this last one.
It came up with humor. Oversight it? That's basically an element of every single thing is talking about to some extent this idea of data governance, this this becomes really important when you're training an AI tool on your own data you don't need a you don't need a general purpose.
AI, you know, that's gonna search in the whole Internet.
You wanted to. Just look at your data. And that's how that's how AI has typically been used more often than not.
At least the kind of the specific uses that have been have the most of us are aware of so far.
Really this integration into, and I guess integration into now are coming soon into the search tools.
Apparently is, is looking at much more general data sources.
Basically the data source of of the Internet at some point.
Dr. Peter, we're we're not seeing that document.
It's still on the session. 3 notes.
I don't know if you're trying to cast a.
What document?
The breakout room notes.
This one?
Yeah, yeah, we weren't seeing that screen. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, we were not seeing that there we go. No.
You weren't saying that. Well, thank you for saying something.
What was I showing?
It was just a breakout room. Share notes.
Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Must have been in a different window, or something!
Okay, sorry about that.
That's okay.
I need to have another monitor. That just shows me what you guys are seeing.
Okay. Alright. Well, I won't try to pull any more teeth here, so let's move on. AI.
So I'm sure AI will come back into our conversation throughout the semester, and you're welcome to bring it back up into any of our discussions.
It it is, I would consider it, you know, kind of the cutting cusp of a largely publicly accessible emerging technology that we're all going to be dealing with, no matter what role we're playing and where what level we're at and what context we're
at in this kind of instructional environment that we are, and because it's about information and information is so key to much of what we're trying to do right?
We deal in information. Right? That's a big part of what I think a lot of us are doing, are we're providing access information where we're asking people to generate information right?
We are. We are kind of the in some ways of information workers or knowledge workers.
I guess you know, depending on how you wanna look at this. So it makes sense.
I think, to kind of this is a good. This is a good point for us to be talking now about other kinds of technologies that will give us access to information and a ways to work with information in educational terms.
We usually talk about content. Right? We need content. We have such a matter. Experts.
And what do they do? They give us content, and then explain things to us, not just content, though right like I said earlier, we don't just you don't.
You never have content just to have it sitting there.
You have to. Students have to do something with it. The learners have to do something with it.
So it's content. And it's activities around them.
So for today, for today, I asked you to prepare by looking at a couple of things, and this was the not very much.
Actually this one, this typology of free, web-based resources.
Have you seen that before?
Has anyone seen that before?
I've seen some of the stuff in there. I mean that.
This is like a version. 2 of this typology. They did it first in 2015, I believe, and then 2016.
They redid it, and they don't redo this every year, because I don't think it changes enough for them to do whatever you, but they will probably do it again in another year or 2.
Edgy cause is one of the major it and education kind of groups around the world, really and dominant.
Peer in the Us. And North America, I say, but when, if you go into this, what they're doing here is they're talking about the different kinds of, and they're focused on free web based learning technologies, right?
So these are, these are technologies that you can use reasonably well for free some of them may be freemium models.
I don't think they. I don't think that's something they would not do.
But it has to be support, substantially functional for for you to use free, you know, like I don't know meant to meet as a tool. I don't know if it's in here or not, but that as a free version, and it has a paid version of pro vers just like a lot of these
do so. If you look through here you'll see how they you know they do.
Some explicit about what they're doing. Of course this is a kind of a what is this called?
This is a it's not really data visualization.
I don't know. Maybe it's not really numbers, though it's just talking like ideas.
It's more like a concept map it's just a visual representation of the the landscape as they see it.
And they use some color coding here. You can decide for yourself whether or not this is helpful, for you, but you don't have to just rely on that, because there's the traditional Pros text base explanation here and then they go through the different tools.
Yes, Steven, as a question or comment.
Sorry.
You're muted. It sounds like you have deep thought to share.
Yeah, when we were looking for the concept map, is it is it incorrect to call information data?
Not necessarily numerical, but when we have, and, for example, that's organized in this way, I would wanna call this data visualization or data representation.
Yeah.
And not only because they're clickable, but because of the way they're relationship is at.
The relationships are between each other and hierarchical.
I just wonder, I mean, and I know this is probably the wrong class to ask this in.
But is it? Is it too generous to call this data?
I don't know what are the rest of you think.
Half. You probably either took that class or in that class as well.
The 7 40 classes where we talk about that does is this a data visualization is really the question, yeah.
I guess you could count right. You could count the tech and see which one has more numbers right?
Well, you. Don't. I don't think you can do account.
Hello, Cody!
It's basically using a picture to represent information. And the information is, well, what are the different categories, the types of systems we see are the platforms.
Being used to support learning, you know, with technology free and on the web.
And so it's kinda it's like I would consider this similar to a concept map.
It's not really a concept map, but it's that kind of organizational scheme.
It's a visual organizational scheme.
So, yeah, and it does show relationships like you mentioned. So I think, there you go.
I think the answer is, it's not incorrect.
All right.
Thank you.
Yeah, wouldn't it be nice if you could? Well, what about an interactive tool like image-based tools?
What if I click this? I go right to them so it's a little bit interactive.
And then if I go back, I don't go back to the picture.
Unfortunately, so it's not really interactive. It's clickable.
So it's a clip. Clickable map. I'm okay. I care about.
Let's say, 3D modeling tools. Okay? So now I can go to 3D modeling modeling tools.
Here we go! I haven't looked at all of these.
I don't know if you've looked at any.
Sometimes they go away. Of course it's been what 2 years it's probably been 3 years since this was written, and so some of these may have gone along the wayside, although they all the names I see that I recognize are still are still there.
But sometimes they change. Of course you, as you go through this, you'll see tools that you've used or you've heard about, or have you had colleagues use, and these are some things that you might want to take a look at, and and try out and play around with, as a matter of
fact when you're looking at newer technologies or different technologies to do different things.
If you know that there's a tool, a whole group of tools here that you just have never experience or just aren't in use in your your instance, you might want to take a look and say, Well, what's here?
What is is there something here that could be actually useful? Now some of these are really interesting, like the social networking systems.
Well, research Gate itself is. This is what tool I use, and it's it's a way of me kind of summarizing and linking like to the abstracts and the titles of some of the works.
I want other people to know I'm doing, or have done, and a way for them to contact me, and I can add a full, full, full full full print of the copy of whatever it is that's being there, or maybe I have them ask me.
So would they allow you to connect to people and ask questions but it's all around academic research.
Is it a social, networking system? Well, it has some social, networking capabilities but I don't consider it a social network.
I consider is another place for people to find the work I'm doing and for me to search for other people's work as well.
So is it a social network? Yeah, I guess so. So, you'll find some of that in here, too.
You might, you might see something classified. You know that you perhaps wouldn't classify it that way.
Has anyone in here use?
That's something I know has come up in some of our summer conversations and some class I've been in.
I've like, used it minimally during distance learning.
Our school is trying to decide if they were, gonna do like Google classroom as an Lms or and the school is pretty divided.
So we did like see software like 4, I think, and Google classroom for 5 days.
Uhhuh.
But I worked with that a little bit because I read a lot of articles on like how he talk and like the interactiveness could be effective for middle schoolers.
But most of it was like effective because we use like it was used in the classroom.
So, but I didn't really get to interrupt the con cause.
I stopped once. It's not being relevant to my context.
Yeah.
I feel like there's a lot of valuable tools on it.
Okay. Well, maybe you brought it to a conversation at some point. I don't know.
I actually thought the topic of learning management systems is really interesting, because it kind of depending on how the learning management is designed.
It does provide multiple tools within. So it's not just like whatever they call it, facilitate the delivery of courses.
Right.
Yeah.
But it also has assessment tools and canvass or discussion forums, or, like moodle, is incredibly robust if you know how to use it.
Right.
So there, and like all that thing with like interoperability of those 2 things of the other tools within, there.
So like, yeah, we, it's interesting to to one think about learning management systems is kind of like housing all these other tools.
Potentially, but also they. They can dip their toes into other other areas as well.
Yeah, that's true. We see a lot of that.
I mean just the canvas canvas and how they are.
They are designed to be interactive, to interoperable.
So they want to be able to people to plug into them some Lms is not so much, and they are they.
They tend to do engagement. They have engagement tools, they have content sharing tools, they have assessment tools, they have administer tools are often part of Lms's.
There's some data, analytics and some lms that are built in here.
I have to. I have to keep reminding myself that this they're limiting their list here to things that are free online and so there's obviously there's a lot of Lms here that are not on the list because they're not free even though they are all online, and we the other thing we're
finding in and text base. At least we have over the years.
Is that other tools have been kind of reaching out into the world of the Lms.
And trying to kind of take over a little bit of the Lms function of saying, Hey, you can just use our tool instead of your Lms to manage your course right there's some publisher sites that have they have been moving in that direction there was a echo 3 60 was a lecture Capture.
System, and what they started doing a number of years ago was building in and at kind of an active learning, component.
So they were bringing in discuss forums and other kinds of things, so you could do your lecture, capture your video capture, and then you would automatically kind of connect in different ways.
And that was one reason why we we used to be a customer.
There is at San Francisco State, and we went away from them because we felt that they were getting away from their core business, and we wanted that.
We wanted a lecture solution that was still focused on their core business because we did not want to have faculty who were starting to think of doing discussion.
Forum outside in the and the electricity software system platform, not in the learning management system.
Anyway. Yeah, there's a lot there's a lot in here.
And as you, as you, as you, I've read through this, maybe, or maybe you'll scan through it, there'll be there.
Talk about how the landscape changes, Dalton and others who are in attack are dabbling in that area.
At least you'll recognize that there's a lot of change that happens when a tool actually gets designed, developed and implemented.
And it's really successful. And then what is it? What often happens?
Part of the business model gets bought by someone bigger, right gets brought into another suite.
Usually to capture that functionality and to use it sometimes to kill that right.
They they will buy it. And just kind of say, Okay, we're done with you because we're we're doing that another way.
And you were a threat to us. So sometimes that happens in the business of Edit Tech also.
Okay, questions or comments about this. So many different things listed here.
You know it's hard to keep track. Keep track of something like this.
Yeah. Another thing that was interesting to me was, I think, opening up this, I was really excited to think like, Oh, I'm gonna learn about all these Ed tech tools that like I read about on edge surge that like I just can't keep track of all of them because there's just so many and what I was surprised.
Was that there was a lot of stuff that aren't is not specifically designed for education, but is free and can be used for education like Google, Keep, Google, Docs Twitter.
Yeah.
We're all mentioned here because they're free. So it's just kind of broad in my mindset to the way that we think about what is Ed Tech?
Does it necessarily have to be because you are selling your tool to districts and teachers?
Or is it how you use it? And that is so, lots of things could be considered.
Right.
Education technology, if it is a product that can be used to facilitate learning in some way.
Very true, very true. Microsoft teams, I don't think was ever really designed for an educational market.
I think it was really designed for their core business market. And yet it's become.
It is now, you know it's a major educational technologies in a lot, a lot of schools, especially higher education schools, because it's because of it's, you know, the deep functionality it has, including, you know, good web conferencing and connections to calendaring all that good
stuff, Steven.
I think you're muted again.
Sorry. Thank you. It was. Looks like this was written in or published in April of 2020.
Yeah.
I am so looking forward to seeing what post pandemic post lockdown post distance, learning, year list.
What is gonna look like?
Yes, but you know I like edgy cause resources because they do a lot.
They have a lot of due diligence in their process and then they're publishing.
It goes through a bunch of different eyes, and they get panels of experts and all that kind of stuff.
You can find other sources, for, like more current versions of something like this, by just by searching online, Catherine Shrock's blog, which is around technology and education like K.
12. I think she's kind of more focused on K. 12.
She does one around, I think, like free online tools for formative assistessment or formative evaluation, or something like that.
Kinda like the you know the things we might do with quizzes or mentometer or other kinds of polling and kind of quizzing software.
And it lists. I think it was 75, and sometimes I cite her side.
I noticed I know that her her list of that was most recently updated into 2022, I believe so.
Blog, blog sites that do this are more likely to be updated like this.
This is. This is mean. It looks like piece of paper. It's not a piece of paper, but it's gone through that kind of rigorous of print publishing.
To get to this point, which means it takes time, and so then they're not.
It's not in a format where they can make just a couple of tweaks.
Oh, these 5 things have dropped off this last month, and here's another.
Here's here's like 5 more that came on this quarter.
This is not that kind of a documentary. Other more dynamic documents, perhaps, like, you know, blogs or other kinds of list websites might be that so if you do a search for that, you might find it.
I mean I could find it if I wanted to search for.
But I don't wanna search for it right now. It was called Echo 3, 60, Adam, and I believe they're still in the game.
I think they're still a player in the game.
They're probably doing pretty well, because overall, though the quality of what they were doing was pretty good.
All right. Okay, so let me stop that share.
Where we are. All right, let's see what else did I show you?
Oh, the other chat, chpt, link, I put that in there originally because we hadn't done the other one in a couple of videos around the graphics if you're in the 7 40 class, you probably have plenty of that.
Was there anything that you noticed, or you got? It got out of the especially, you know the idea of creating visual representations of information in ways that are, you know, useful, or Adam?
You have a hand up question to comment.
Oh, yeah, just quick question. Just for that diagram in that article, does it?
Does that in some ways become the like a foundational text for our projects that will be doing the to use that to eventually think about what we want to do research and present on.
You mean, like the tools in there, or the organization? Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, either or.
Well, I do I. One of the reasons I share this document now is because it provides you with links to lots of different tools.
You probably haven't heard of most of those. Do I look for them today?
Right.
I was like, why, I read that last year, but I don't remember that one.
So, yeah, you could use that as a starting point, at least.
Okay.
And it also looks like, you know, and then I like the way that it organizes around function.
You know, I like to focus on. Okay, what are we trying to do here to support learning and the talk about it from a functional basis?
And then look for okay, well, what tools will do this? And this is one of the reasons why you might find tools that were never designed for what we're trying to do, that we might grab onto.
Right.
Because it turns out it actually does this really? Well, so it's not being sold to us as an educator to develop content.
But yet we find, Hey, this is a great thing for having students build, content, or share, content, or find content, or aggregate, content, or whatever it might be.
Gotcha great.
So I think the answer is, you could use this as a place, a starting point for all that, and they have a list of 200, and I don't have to put them anywhere.
Hmm!
So you'll also find that you know most as we start talking about technologies more.
You guys will come in and you'll be able to do little Demos of what you're using for various things, and that'll also be a place where you might find something.
Oh, I think I want to explore that the end. The the idea on the project is that you're looking you're working with technologies that are that are not ones.
You are already using every day right cause you for you. It's not emerging.
It's emerged. It's already there. It's functional for you. You.
Could you could take a technology that has a whole other area of functionality.
You've never used or accept and do with that. But that's not normally what happens.
So usually, you find the different technology you either haven't used or you've just kind of dabbled with, but never really applied.
And now you wanna figure out how to apply it and use it to support learning.
Okay. So the emerging aspect of it doesn't have to be really doesn't really have to be emerging for anyone.
But you normally, it's emerging for at least some of us, because we're often in similar boats or in the similar places.
I guess. Okay. So you don't have to find a technology that's new for everybody.
That might be a little hard to do.
Harder than we wanted to make it. What do you think, Danny?
I mean, it sounds good to me, you know. Look, I definitely agree.
Finding new technology. That's new to everybody. It's quite different.
And I'm you know, for my work. I'm more more like administrative as a staff when it comes to within the educational field.
So, for me at least. Experience, you know, kind of with the emerging technology.
We'll probably try to see from like the faculty aspect of it, like you know how they can work with technologies in education that's definitely new to me.
Yeah, I mean, when you're not living and working every day in an educational, in the active, educational, supporting learning space.
Then a lot more of this is a lot. There's, I think there's a lot more exploration.
And so I you know what we what I need to hear from you especially is if we're getting to the point where we're not making sense to you or are, it's really confusing.
Or you feels a little uncoordinated because we're talking about instructional stuff that is really kind of the life of a teacher that you're not able.
You you are not able to connect, to as well as you want, and this is something that you could just bring up to me, too.
Also individually, if you got that way, I don't think I don't think it will, but it I just wanna make sure you know that.
Okay. I also put a whole bunch of links in the in the agenda document.
Of different kinds, of examples, of different ways, of accessing content.
Some of which you may or may may have never used before.
There are these, you know, the in the threed interactions you know, multimedia models.
You can find, especially places like museums or other kinds of places where they want to give you this being their experience. But even though they know you're gonna be there, the whole idea of virtual field trips have any of you ever taken a class or gone on a virtual field trip.
Anyone, ever.
Did you go to outer space in NASA?
Yeah, we've done some with my students. I think we did some that during lockdown were, no, we were doing like nature nature stuff.
Oh! Did you use any? Was was it a particular?
Did they do a really good job with it, I mean, was it like really interesting, like immersive, or just more of a kind of flat?
Well, it was. We kind of created a package of salespaced trips, so we didn't do it with the students.
This is during that time when we're trying to figure out how we're gonna do online school.
So we just sent some material home. We found some that we liked, and then we just had students do it on their own.
Got it. So they did it. They did a physical, not a virtual field trip.
They did a real real field trip on their own in like regional.
It was like a VR. But within the desktop.
Okay.
Oh, oh, got it? Okay. Alright. Yeah, yeah. They're really.
There are some really interesting spaces out there that you can.
You have free access to a lot of these places. A lot of you know the the public public, any group that has partial public funding like public, you know.
Pbs, or I believe I don't know about the BBC.
But they make a lot of their stuff publicly available to a lot of stuff's really high production quality if you can find it, discover network, Nova, that no hold, no over place.
I mean, of course. Then you got things like NASA, and there's there's spaces.
There's a lot of immersive kinds of things that they've been building that are really interesting.
And a lot of teachers and a lot of students have really never come across that stuff.
They've never seen it, and then it's especially never had kind of a curated experience with it.
And that's what you would be doing as a teacher, as you're creating.
You're curating their experience with it. Other kinds of things, other kinds of content that might be relatively new to you.
There's idea of interactive infographics. Right? We talk about infographics and some of our classes, and we've seen more and more of them.
I guess, but interactive intergraphics where you can actually point, click, and pull things around and explore, explore the kind of the data underneath the infographics or the connections among different elements you know, can be really useful.
And what else do we have here? Let's see data, visualization.
This is a link from the tableau tableau. As an example, we can take a look at these kinds of things there are so many different examples out here, and I think that I think the best thing to do is to encourage you to explore some of these.
We have. Obviously, we have limited time in our class session type. But I think what we're gonna do next is we're gonna take a break, and then we're going to come back and then give you a chance to explore some of these in smaller groups.
We'll probably do 3 breakouts, so that you can take a look at these are other tools that you might use to explore, content, and and expose students to content in different ways, especially ways that are little bit more, maybe more engaging and interactive than just you know, reading something you know, kind of like Dr.
Bady does read this, watch this right, this going outside the box for that one.
So let's let's take a break for roughly 5 min.
We'll come back at the top of the hour, and then we will go into breakouts and do some debrief and talk about what's coming next.
Okay, we're back. I'm back at least couple of people are back.
I just there are lots of different places.
I just found this other place. Do you see the screen here that says virtual reality?
Eeg based mental wellness lessons just showing up.
Yes. Do you see that?
No, we're just seeing the canvas page.
Dumb thing. Okay?
I think whenever I change I can't split monitors on this, too.
Well, for whatever reason here it is. Here is something that you probably haven't done in school or in training.
Yeah, this is a VR and Eeg based mental wellness.
Lesson site. You can buy a special headset that must have also some electrical surface electrical connections to kinda measure an Eeg electro as stuff, whatever it's called, something.
Graham measures, electrical signals, and it it will teach you will help you kind of you, or support your mental health through some particular lessons.
I don't know what kind of lessons they are.
Don't know if it works, but they're sold out, so someone must be buying them.
They probably had more than 3 or 4, and then you can. You?
But these these are the kinds of tools that you can do with some of these.
Technologies, that for many of us are still emerging, and yet for others people have been playing with headsets for a long time.
In some places, especially some of your students, maybe, but probably not for learning, at least not learning in any kind of formal sense.
So, for most of us, I'd say a lot of the VR.
Applications are probably still emerging technologies and even sites that are using them like some of your school sites might use them.
I, how how much do you have available to use right?
I've been through some really interesting in-depth, immersive VR experiences like at universities Arizona State. I went through there.
They, they have a whole, you know, 3 in an environment, a multi-story environment that was built in construction with one of the Hollywood, VR.
People forget the company, but it's all of it's for a biology class.
And so you go in, and you're you kind of are entering into this environment.
And it's all these you're kind of going inside a biosphere into the very small levels.
And you're seeing all the little creatures and things like that.
And you're walking up and downstairs, and you have 3 or 4 people in there.
You're interacting with each other and driving these little carts around.
It's pretty cool, hugely expensive, though, right? 30 or 40 million dollar project.
And it does one thing I mean clearly, could probably be reprogrammed in to do some other things, but that that kind of lets scope, or the cost of that makes it something that is just.
It's for fun and interesting and engagement, and probably research.
It is not for everyday school, it which is not there yet for that kind of that kind of immersive kind of experience. Dalton.
Yeah, I'm a little familiar with these biofeedback tools, right?
Uhhuh.
I've tried some. My students also tried one called the Muse, which I will put in the chat as well.
Those are interesting because they're it's collecting some kind of brain data like different kind of brainwaves.
And there are some patterns that indicate things like calm and focus.
So they claim. But I've tried some, and I think there's something to it.
And there's also even toys like the Star Wars seemed one. Yeah.
So I've had students practice using this muse one and also to run experiments and it creates a huge data set which will be perfect for a tableau.
Yes, I'm sure.
And so, yeah, this, you know, this could be a way that we can actually teach some form of social, emotional learning and or self-regulation. Right?
That is actually data backed right and students can actually see the data coming out in real time.
Uhhuh.
And and so you can train yourself, you know. I could imagine something like, you know.
VR. Landscape that you could only join if you're calm, and if you're not calm, you go into some other space that helps you get back into that.
Right.
So, you know, and then, of course, this can also stretch into wearables as well.
Yeah, well, it's this is a, it's.
It's sort of a wearable. It's a wearable device, right?
And it's coming to your to your body in different ways, and getting that data kind of like your Fitbed or your apple watch, or whatever other kind of tracker it's getting some sort of body data to do that.
And so it's very interesting. There's a there's some really interesting research going on.
I know if I mentioned. I don't think I mentioned this in this class.
Forget when the last time I actually showed people this. But there was this, there was this research going on in China at a school, and they were really they were doing biometric measurements of students looking for attention.
And so they were trying to decide to track when students were paying attention throughout the school day, and they were tracking that, and they would get that information to the teachers.
But they'd also give that information to this. The parents.
So at the end of the school day the kids we get home, and if they hadn't been paying attention so well they had to.
They were held accountable by their parents and some, when they interviewed the students.
That was one of the things that they were saying is that they don't really like this so much if they're not paying attention, because then, you know, they get home, and it's it's not.
Maybe it's not a pleasant experience for them, and there's, you know, so clearly.
There are questions about really all of these tools, but especially ones that get a lot more capture, a lot more personalized data.
How, are? How are you handling the data? Who has access to it?
How is it being used outside of, you know me right cause I know you're using this data, and they all do.
I mean, they're using it to improve products and lots of other things.
But that's important things. Those are important things to question.
So when you decided to use Muse Dalton with your students, did you go through any kind of that kind of analysis or questioning?
Or did you have to answer any questions about that?
No, this was something a student brought to our project. It was a science fair project.
So the student. The student, was familiar with it, brought it to class.
We looked at it, we tested it a bit. And we're like, okay, sure, there's enough data here that we can actually run an experiment just submitted it to Sanator Science fair. This is a few years ago.
Uhhuh.
Cool.
Yeah.
And won some kind prize, so she had a really valid, a really clear hypothesis, clear, measurable data, and it it was pretty neat, and I was one of the test subjects.
She was testing. Now it's coming back to me. She was testing like the the effect of different music on your brainwaves.
So some people are listening to like hot music. Some people were listening to white noise, some people listening to classical music, and then looked at the data.
Okay, yeah, that might be really relevant, especially with the number of students who probably use music or listen to music while they're doing their studies.
You know the reading, or they're doing some homework, or whatever even taking tests.
Okay, just another example. So this first group of technologies that we're really talking about today are where we're contents out there.
And we're not really generating content, you know. To some extent this is a little different, because your physical activity is generating the information.
Next week, we're gonna talk more about students actually producing content themselves but tonight, let's focus more on students.
Students generate or accessing content. Content. That's out there content.
That may be is being experienced. And as it's being experienced, there's some aspect of it being experienced uniquely every time it's being experienced you know that kind of thing walk, you know, you never take the same walk.
You never see the same water in a river going by, you?
That kind of thing. Yet, being at the river is something that.
Okay. We're at a river, you know. We're not creating the river for that.
So in in the breakout. That I'd like you to do for discussion.
Let's let me pull this up.
Session? 4. Think about this. The you have already are using that may be considered emerging in some contexts right?
What are you using now? Have you? Have you evaluated them for the privacy things we're talking about?
Have you read the terms of service, maybe, or maybe not. What are? What are the ones you're using now?
For what? For what purposes, what functions some may be. Some of the functions we talked about earlier in that kind of that, that typology.
And what are what are the? Where are the gaps?
Where do you think the gaps are in your situation for technologies to do things that you don't know exist yet?
Or maybe there exist. But you know you don't have access to them for some particular reason.
Let's just have that conversation for a bit. We'll put how many people we have 7.
We must have dropped off. Didn't wanna do, didn't wanna do a break out?
Maybe we're gonna still do 3 breakouts because 4 people is too big for a breakout like this.
You have to be able to talk. You have to have that social pressure to talk, and so I'm gonna stop sharing.
Do you have the? We'll put this. We'll put this link in the chat again.
All right. That's done. We're going to pause the recording and we'll do the breakout for oh, roughly, 20 min or so, and then we'll come back into a debrief.
So the recording will pause here. I'll be right here with a smile.
Everybody's back. Super. Let me start the recording again, just to make sure we get all this wonderful stuff back on the record.
Okay. Oh, I missed my. I now was a jump cut now in the video.
I missed it. Anyway, we have room one group, one to start our little debrief report. What did you guys talk about?
Hi! Everyone! So I will be meeting the I guess the talk about what we discussed in our group session.
So for the first one we're looking at it really a lot of times we noticed a lot of those terms of services.
Or privacy policies when it comes to those softwares or turn of use.
Really, they use a lot of, I guess, legal languages, and then it's really lengthy to redo them like it's kinda difficult, frankly, from time to time, for us in terms of the needs for supports do for supporting students accessing contents.
Our team. We're looking more from like H. Instructors perspective, you know, at to help students, you know, with the multi language support and just more opportunities to engage more and video game video games to make the contacts more engaging.
Yeah, yeah.
Hello, so definitely like us. Whatever is successful like for mobile device or, like, you know, quick access from anywhere and also I was talking about from my perspective as a staff, about like file sharing like trying to find like I secure way to shared documents like for a student to students or even like for students to
instructors, and for our notes. We were looking for some of the tools like one on one computer.
Google classroom nearpad, which is interactive learning platform zoom.
And for 5 transfer. We were talking about there is some other file transfers, but I was talking about probably like a docky sign as an example, docusign is mainly only focusing on like paper documents like electronic file.
But it's not really like support, like other like, multiple, different types of the files, is very specific and we're looking at the needs that you know, there are no come now these between students and tutor and in need, there's a need any device, not only translate for like written words.
But also like speak to it. And this was before Google Translate could do it.
And we're also talking about tools to make content now can make kind of boring contents more.
Try to make contacts more interesting. Like less boring, to make more fun, engaging and even competitive.
And finally, we'll with my example. I think we're also talking about like you know.
Try to find it easy to use, but also secure way to share documents, share files.
That's as far as from our group. And I mean, do you have anything like to add on?
Yeah, so that first bullet point under the what are the needs?
That was in reference to an experience that said you had, and she was a tutor for a student who spoke a language that she didn't speak, and so she needed to find a way to translate what she was saying into the language that the student needed or understood and then once that happened the student could
not read it on Google classroom, or on Google classroom Google. Translate.
And so the need. There was to have a software that not only translated written word, but like into other written word in another language, but also to translate it into spoken word, so that if a student is too young to read or cannot read, yet regardless of age that way, that tool becomes useful because it became
like, not useful. And she realized the student couldn't read it.
So that was the context behind that point. Other than that, I think he did a great job, and like compiling our information.
Cool thanks.
Okay. Questions from the rest of you, Linda Steven, Adam Dalton.
Do any of these? Would you consider them emerging like, for example, the docusign for file, transferring Danny?
That's this, is your world, really. Would you consider this emerging any emerging technology at our campus? Still?
Yeah.
I think our on campus a lot of the promises are have been using docusign and very widely.
But you know there are some things like our office we're still trying to look into it to see whether for like, it's really a good fit for some of the documents transferring, because from time to time really relies on emails ending as a stay there was a time period that
we had a lot of phishing emails, and we have seen like, there're phishing emails that's basically copy symbols or like images from like emails.
Yeah.
We might have seen, for of just frequently, and they just replace the links to make them into like phishing links.
Uhhuh.
So that's gonna be that's kinda secure issues from our perspective.
Yeah, it's. This is a very interesting thing.
This is a huge educational system we have here right? San Francisco State administratively, quite complex and also relatively decentralized in some ways.
For example, the use of docusign docusign's been on campus for quite a number of years.
Now a trickle to start, and more and more I see more and more phones, but I still know there are a lot of forms out there that are not being used with docusign docusign as a service and as a company, as a software platform has been around for I don't know how
long, but I'd have to say at least a decade, and probably longer, and the fact that it's still emerging in some of the units here on San Francisco State says a lot about I think it says a lot more about the way we govern it on our campus than it does about
the quality of the docusign product that may be an editorial comment.
But yeah, that if you, if you don't use it as a unit, you don't know how to put forms into it.
You don't know what the, what, what the strengths are, and what the caveats are, what the cautions are for.
Using it so it would still be emerging. How about this Google translate?
You know the with the spoken in particular. I've just been exploring with that myself. I'm pretty impressed in general.
Yeah, I feel like, that's at least in my world like, that's definitely something that's emerging.
Cause I like early for me, like I went to Spain last year, and I don't know span like I can understand way more than I can like.
Say. But once I realize that that was a potential like that was like game changer on our trip, like I was able to communicate with more people and just like make more connections and able to like not feel like super dumb thank you. Very help.
Yeah, well, you can ask more complex things, to. You know, everything doesn't have to be in like, you know, a first year Spanish of high school kind of language, which is really pretty simple.
Yeah.
Yeah, there have been apps around for a while that you could do this.
You could train even for your own voice. These I don't know, I don't remember exactly what they were not Google translate, but they were other apps.
You could pay for. And you could basically have it do that kind of translation for you, and actually be a you know, it could listen to your voice and speak it out in another language.
And that kind of thing. I never bought it because I didn't really have a specific need for it.
So I imagine the technology is just gotten better, especially with the advancements in that artificial intelligence kinda of engines to support this.
But I've been impressed in my little dabbling with it just in the last.
Oh, last couple of months or so, so I would say, certainly emerging still in many ways, especially in education, I mean, we don't.
We don't really teach a lot with foreign languages in regular classes.
And most of our schools in this country. In most schools, at least, individual, like private schools can do, could do what they want.
But, like the public school system, I think pretty much. Every State is, unless it's a special specific class.
It's pretty much English. Only instruction, I think, isn't it? Even in California?
Did. He has a couple of.
So what happens when these translators become so popular that kids can actually get away with not learning English, at least not early learning English like, we're expecting them to.
What would that happen? Would they be able to learn better?
Would would it? You know? Kind of doom our democracy?
So you imagine the the political number around stuff like this we're just talking about AI.
But what about AI? Where the language doesn't have to be shared?
Okay, what does that do? The cultural aspects? Well, maybe people keep march of their own culture.
Maybe they don't assimilate in culture as much, and I don't know consequences for all of them.
So!
We're not really here to kinda debate the values that. But I do think that some of these technologies have potentially significant impacts.
And education is would just be part of like this big thing going on, you know, in our, in our systems.
Yeah, think about that for a moment. Alright, thank you. Anything else. From group One.
Saadia anything to add?
No, I think Amanda said what I was talking about.
I worked with a Afghani family, and the They.
They were pushed through speaking, and I don't understand.
Push 2, so it was very difficult situation for me to like.
Help her communicate in English. So yeah, I was talking about that like how to help students.
Right.
Oh! And she was not able to read or write to.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
It could be very useful. Okay, let's go on to group 2. Adam Dalton.
Yeah, Adam, do you go first, you know, adding the teacher, perspective.
Yeah, sure. So when we were talking about tools using, I was thinking specifically about the context, that you were saying, Doctor B.
About, accessing, pre-existing content in the the best one that I was thinking of was for health science programs that I work with bio-digital is a big one, or something also like zygote body, which is what dog brought up so like 3D images of the human body
that make you know that reduce the need to have go to the dissection lab.
If on your campus, that you can actually get a really good understanding of human anatomy by by the advances in 3D. Body, imaging.
And then we can hide different parts of the body. You can view different pathologies through through this, through 3 bodies, is pretty cool.
So that was something that was building. What you had said. That was one of the ideas I had come up with, that I've been using before.
And then, Dalton, you you had something similar, right?
Yeah, I mean, I'm not sure if many of technologies are using.
Now in teaching would be considered, emerging, but at the end of the day I'm the person that vets it.
I am the person that that looks searches for it, and then post it.
So, yeah, this page is where I've collected the best simulations and videos and articles for my students, based on the product that we do.
So right now we're about to start electromagnetism.
We've we're a few weeks into it now.
And this is kind of like a link, farm type, thing.
I? You know I don't think it's great, but it's a place where I can park a lot of content for myself and also for students.
So if there's like, if we're learning about magnetism, we can click on this fare fluid link.
Oh! And by the way, I would access this with my paid Google premium accounts, so that the students wouldn't get distracted by the AD.
Of course. And then, yeah. And so I, I put links in there with simulations and videos and articles.
And so also it's a place where it also allows for differentiation.
Right. So for students who are more advanced, who do want something a little spicier.
It's in there if they wanted to.
Do something self-paced and a lot of, you know pretty much everything is on me.
I'm the one that's finding the links.
I'm the one that's repairing the links.
Hmm!
If I'm the one that's repairing the links, if they're broken or if they're no longer supported and I'm the one that's aggregating things.
So. But you know I do realize that putting them all into a Google Doc is not super fancy or flashy, but it gets a job done for myself and students, and there's no login required.
Right. There's no nothing. So it's just a Google Doc that's visible.
That's true.
Bye anybody with the link. So you know again he gets the job done, not super sleek, but it is what it is.
Well, you know, 30 years ago I was a physics teacher, and I had.
I was the first one to put websites up at our school, and one of my first sights I built was basically a physics website for for my glass.
So the fact that you're just using, you know, a web page essentially to add links.
Certainly not emerging. I don't think it is.
You know the specific things that you're finding here, or your students are really helpful for them.
Yeah, is it emerging? I don't know. Maybe it's not.
But maybe it is because maybe people don't do this anymore you know, we're just a lot of people are, instead of putting all the, you know, a collection of links together.
What do we do? We go to Google or Bing, or something like that, and do a search and boom?
There's our web page that comes up, and there's all the links we're gonna pick from, you know, typically not curated very well, and not the way we would do it.
Yeah, we go. Oh, yeah, that one I like, and get out of that.
I think this is cool stuff, of course. Having taught some of this myself, and there's a lot I mean the animations and the kinds of things you can find these days are just a pretty fascinating emerging.
I don't know, for some of us, probably. Yes, I haven't really thought about that, you know, using things like that.
And for others who are kind of in the field where the stuff has been around for a while.
Well, not not emerging. I've never built it, but I have used it with students I mean, to see it kind of the idea of using simulated labs, too.
Lab simulations rather than physical lab environments for science classes and things like that new, not really, but for some of us, yeah, totally new, because we don't redundant before, we never had the resource.
The body, the 3D. Do you remember when the first kind of a 3D.
Model became available. Through this. The slices, you know, that's quite a while ago, I believe, at least at least in Internet time.
Quite a while ago, and that was pretty fascinating, you know, when that became available for people to actually use, the technology has gotten me the representation.
Just pretty fantastic. Nothing like it was before. So okay.
Oh, yeah, I I could see an emergency technology which will be schools hiring like a consultant or some kind of aggregator.
You know, team of people like, Hey, okay, we're going to do a study on the great.
You know the big civilizations in the world like, can you give us a set of simulations?
VR, fil trips right it. This could be some kind of emergent tech.
You mean like a librarian?
Well, a librarian may not be an expert on the latest VR.
That may. Yeah, that's no doubt, no doubt.
I can tell you that from experience do you know what I mean?
Something like somebody who's scouring the Internet for free, for free super.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, got it. Got it? Got it? Okay? Like a librarian's helper.
Well!
Who's you know, contract library, and do those kinds of projects for for him or her?
Yeah, that's right. Yeah. The intern. Yeah.
Yeah.
But that does bring up a good point, because, Dr. B. The way you set this set up the question when I was thinking about like existing like accessing like existing like pre-generated content.
Yeah, right?
I was thinking the first thing I was like, oh, so like, is that like going to the library's website, where you would have that access?
And we were just thinking about the ways that it can be hard for teachers to, and or any subject matter expert to be that subject matter, expert.
Yeah.
But then, like all that, knowledge is still like a huge barrier for them, because they it's really exciting to get that, whether that might be a textbook or what they can't just like, take their take their students word for it like this this is what I know
that becomes a huge barrier.
What are the well? Obviously, what are the biggest problems we have with the wealth of information we have available is inexing and finding what we need when we need it.
It's kind of like a memory, right? Your memory is incredibly tuned to do that.
But when your memory starts changing right, and maybe when you get a little older, that becomes, that's what people really struggle with is indexing and getting queuing and finding that you know you know something.
But you can't get to it that's that's the frustration.
I think that a lot of a lot of people have, with the wealth of information we have available.
We know there's some information out there, but I don't I don't know how to get to it, and just doing Google searches is a really, that's a really blunt tool, you know.
Maybe the chat, chat gpt stuff will be helpful for that, but we've seen that.
Maybe maybe not, you know, based on what the data we've been or the results will be getting so far. But yeah, if we could get that answer.
That would be wonderful access to information right when you need it at the right time is just.
It's golden, right? Anything else in here. Let's see the vetting.
Someone else has done that don't know who, probably not being done, maybe not being done.
Who knows?
We also talked about like, who is the burden? Who is burdened?
Is it to vet because it can be huge, huge burden on teachers, but they are the front lines and the ones you reallyre really using it.
Typically then, like the people further away are the one further away from students, are often vetting it.
But then you're just as a teacher. You're just given something that you might not actually be very useful.
Yeah, well, I yeah, what? I don't know what the law says.
However, I would think that whoever's making the choice to adopt and use something probably has frontline culprit build, or I guess a accountability for doing that or making sure it's been done by someone else.
When teachers have a choice to use technologies or not, they're making that choice and so that's a volitional choice.
And if they're if that, it's putting students at risk, and if there's some sort of harm done, then you would think that the you know that would be one place where where someone could be held accountable.
But you made that choice, didn't know if it was safe for students.
Well, that's bad on you. You should have done that.
Someone should have made sure you knew that was important in the administrator.
The schools probably is. Well, we got this, you know.
This blah blah blah thing that's signed by the teachers saying, Yeah, we've gone through this training, and we understand that, you know, you know, data, security, privacy and all that.
And yet there is some. I'm sure. There are some umbrella liability policy for teachers in general which makes it a school and our school system responsibility, and then they would be the ones be held accountable, and that would probably be where it would go anyway, means teachers would have to be I think
pretty far out of the lines from what the school expectations would be for them to be completely exposed in in our institution.
Higher, add typically what we're concerned with are not about individual harms for students or things like that.
It's really about exposing data, right? When someone's using the system.
And somehow they get access. The system gets they get access to sensitive data or stuff.
That's Pii in some way. Personally identifiable information, and it gets exposed on the Internet.
And then there's a per like a per record charge that that typically institutions are held, that they find huge fines, millions of dollars of fine.
So which is why the University has assurance, and the Csu has insurance to pay, basically pay for that.
And then those insurance requirements, then start dictating some of our requirements around the systems that we can use is a risk.
Okay. Didn't mean to go there, but that's that's a consideration.
What all of these kinds of technologies, when you're looking at using more and more and more interesting kinds of data.
Yeah, think about biometric data? Hmm, there's a big bucket with that.
Let's go on a group 3.
I'm Linda. I'll go ahead.
We both are in careers, where I don't think there's much that we're doing.
That's really so for for my students, they're doing some things this year.
For the first time. But that's not really emerging to have their own laptops, and my students are using a tool pretty frequently that not a lot of other teachers have adopted, and you could maybe make an argument.
That's emerging. The tool that we're using happens to be sanctioned by Ida. It department.
In other words, they've reviewed it.
They've they've accepted it.
And in order for students to use it, they do have to sign in, but they sign in using their school accounts.
They can't sign in, not without using this cool account, and it reminds me of like back in the day where people were being zoom bombed because people could just join anonymously.
And so there is a safety and privacy to an anonymity.
But there's also a liability. And when I, when my students sign in to the app that I'm using, I can then collect data that's useful to me.
Which I can't do if it's anonymous, I mean, I can kind of like with Mentor, you know.
You can get a sense of where the class is at.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
But I you know I wouldn't know who specifically to help Linda.
Has oh, like me, we're not using anything that's particularly emerging.
But when he's using tools through the software that she has, that's really useful for finding potential employees.
How are you?
And she also has a program that makes basically a Mooc. If if I understand this correctly, please correct me if I'm wrong, Linda, but it's based it.
So this, this program takes information from a co-worker, and Linda creates like a training program and.
Oh, please! Please!
Oh, yeah, similar. I'm sorry. I don't mean to cut you out, Steven. Yeah, we're always here. We were kind of talking about right?
3 60 products. So it's basically like a software tool to where our instructional designer so far, I'm sorry.
It's a software where you can make your e-learning courses.
Basically just simply put in the way. So what I told Steven was I, you know.
Sometimes I work with a contractors as a freelancing that they will give me their existing Powerpoint formatted training courses, and then to tell me to put this in turn, this into rice course, and then so I basically, kind of copy a piece of content and but make it look
prettier, no way, so a lot of the like learning courses are done via rice, or maybe arise 3, 60, or any other course, U.S.A. or Coursera ones are one like that, too.
So that's the one I think I mean, I guess instructional technologies standpoint.
It rise? 3, 6. Is not that emerging? But it's been around for a bit, and then a lot of people are using it.
But to me, who, as a somebody who's kind of grating into that field, I thought it was very brilliant tool for me to start learning and using it.
And then to that point. Steven, you were saying that, having a one on like each student having la laptop, is not that emerging?
But to me, as somebody who graduated high school in 2,007, that's pretty damn emerging.
So I thought I it's like I think it was kind of perceive thing, too.
So in that group classroom thing. So I thought that was pretty cool to learn how.
Now they students get to use technologies to learn, and everything.
So, yeah.
Okay. Yeah. Rise, 3, 60 is been around for a while, and the functionality of the E-learning development software has been out.
For you know, quite a quite a long time. I remember the days when we had to. Everything was done by hand, and this is so much better you can do so much more.
But you are also. You also look kind of limited to the rise.
3, 60, the limits on their creativity, and what they'll what they'll support.
I thought it was interesting. That you compared it to a Mooc, because the people who work for mood companies right would probably say Moocs are different than e-learning.
And yet when I first heard about Moocs, and I think 2,007 or so, I thought, Isn't this isn't this e-learning where it's both mostly, you know, not very interactive?
That's not really facilitated. It's great information to some in Internet activity. Perhaps.
Or it may be discussions, maybe not just great, really great content.
And then, and then, but it was mostly what I would call independent self paced kinda learning environments.
So I know they've changed somewhat in some ways.
And become a lot more specific. So anyway, I thought that was, I just had to smile when I heard that.
Yup, that's what we basically kind of talked about.
And we kind of also kind of talked about what in these areas, and perhaps even did point it out like the security things that they have to go through.
And then there's some pro programs not being available for all.
Cross. My issue was, or for Linkedin I just put better work, feel keyword function applied Linkedin recruiter is, if you don't know Linkedin recruiter is of our tool.
That recruiters use. Only you have to pay for it.
If it allows us to kind of go around and search people by using keywords, and we allows us to look at each people's profile without notifying the person that we're looking at.
It so, but it could use a lot more work on in terms of better keyword filtering.
So that's like a that's we pay a lot of money for it.
Sure!
But I'm like, this is very basic. So and then rise 3 62.
It's great, but like it doesn't give you a whole lot of freedom to be very creative to.
It. It has limitation on certain functions. Are you? You're on mute, Dr.
Weedy.
So you're still on mute.
There you go!
Okay. Thank you. That's why you kept talking.
When I was when I was talking to talk over you, Linkedin.
Learning, I think, is a good example of a system that we most of us use for free Nope.
Most of us don't pay for that, or some, you know.
At least most of the people I know that I have talked to don't pay for anything in the advanced services, and yet we're providing the data that Linkedin then gets to sell to others.
Basically to recruiters in this. In this sense, since there's probably other ways, they're monetizing this.
And so we're kind of paying with our data.
We're giving them we're giving them a valuable resources, and they can do that.
And everybody knows that, and actually a lot of people on Linkedin.
They don't mind, because maybe everyone down there is sort of always looking for a job, you know.
Is there something better out there? You know that kind of thing?
So yet I bet no one's ever read that in the document.
Yeah, probably not. I think Linkedin is a platform for people to be discovered.
Yeah, yeah.
So, even if they don't know they're be like, oh, we're go!
I'm here for a price.
Yeah, that's right. It's it's a networking environment.
Yeah.
And you know your network, because you know, part of it's to to share and to take advantage of opportunities.
Absolutely.
So alright. Thank you. Any comments or other questions or comments from some of anyone else on this.
I was just thinking when we think about like the prompt on like accessing content.
And that's what we're talking about. I one of the things that I think is still kind of a need is that like, you know, a lot of the links you provided here around like different, like, you know, like 3D interactive multimedia models like virtual field trips there's sometimes it's hard to
Yeah.
make as an instructor to make that active learning, like students might just like click around and do something, or you like, give them some prompts and some sometimes those prompts are more just like, did you find the thing?
Right.
And it almost becomes like a scavenger hunt, so like, how do you make those content accessing tools really like a an active learning experience?
Or students are like getting to higher levels of thinking.
It's good question. Do you remember, have you ever heard of the concept of a web quest?
Request. Oh, my gosh! I'm that old right!
Maybe.
I remember when webcams were like the latest, greatest new thing.
It was a way to actually make the Internet useful for students to use on their own time, to do something for a class, a class activity, or a homework assignment.
And basically it was go to this site, find this information out, you know, you know.
Blah blah blah! Do send me where that maybe write some.
You know what what I mean. I don't know what you would do, meaning for find this.
Go to another site. Do this. There, and then. That's this part of the little project doing then go to this other side.
So you might go through a series of projects kind of touring them through the web to create this, to finish this quest, and maybe the quest is to come up with an an exponential of why something happened, or an understanding of some historical thing. Or what it might be.
But there was. It was a big thing. As a matter of fact, Bernie Dodge is San Diego State made a career out of this for, like 20 years, he wrote.
A. I think he wrote a book on, and everything it's called a Web Quest.
If you've never, never explored a web quest, or if you if that was something you've heard about in the ancient history of the web, you haven't explored, you might take a look at that, because that that was that's what comes to mind with some of these sites.
Yeah, you wouldn't just send them to the said, Oh, just go play around unless that's all you really wanted them to do.
What are the possibilities like? Say, you're gonna go somewhere with them like to a museum?
Maybe a local museum and they have a virtual tour available well, here's a link.
You know your assignment for tonight is to go home and explore this for 20 or 30 min and to find 3 things that you want to see when we actually go there, or something like that, to give them the but the point is that you can do that kind of thing at these web.
At the site. And so this is where you this is the instructional preparation here's the link you access this information, and here's what you do with it, and then you go here and then you do this with that.
Those kinds of things that would be. That would be the thing to do rather than I tend to give you a lot of links and things, because I know that you know, do you guys typically know how to explore?
You know what you're looking for, kids? Not so much. Necessarily, you know. If they are being, if they have to go somewhere, they may just go there and not know what to do unless you tell them what to do.
So that might be an approach I was. I've been.
I was just looking for my chat window to, so I could spell web quest for you. W.
Eb, q-ust, boom. It probably used to have a website, too. I don't know if it still does.
Webquest.
Yeah, I I think Bernie Dons just now retired, his hair is wider than mine.
So okay, well, thank you for the conversation. And that was really interesting for those of you who are watching online in the recording, you will find that there is a group for.
And this is going to be for our asynchronous learners.
You can all be part of the same big group. And so you can add your notes to this.
This little group for and make sure you add your names as well.
I'm gonna actually say, add your names. So if you get to this part of the recording or the transcript, I'll speak very clearly for the transcript.
Please go to the shared boot breakout notes, page, and add your contribution to it.
Group, for alright, now for the rest of us, as we wrap up real quickly.
What are we gonna be doing? The discussion Forum actually change the prompt a little bit to focus more on, think technologies that we would consider emerging or emerging ish right?
So think about the technologies that you are using now that are new to you, or what you would consider.
You know, I'm just kind of. I'm still learning how to do this to me.
That's still kind of fits within our big envelope.
Inside the big tent of emerging technologies. But if you don't have any technologies like that, like I heard from some of you tonight not really doing anything new new technologies.
I'm pretty comfortable with what I'm using.
Then think about the next technology. You might want to explore and take this as an opportunity to start dabbling around with that, because in 2 weeks I think it's in 2 weeks you get a chance to talk about in a a technology that is what you would consider emerging for you and how you might apply
it with your students. Okay? So you can start that. Now with this discussion, this is about content.
Once again accessing content. That's not really creating content.
Next week we'll take a similar approach, and we'll talk about content creation.
You having students create content students, as you know, Prosumers.
You may have heard that term before, where they're producing content as well as perhaps consuming content.
Oftentimes, when students create content they're we're actually asking them to create content.
So that other students can learn from what they're creating.
That's what we do in this class all the time.
Hope you recognize that that's where we're going.
That's what we're talking about next week.
Are there any questions?
Okay. I waited my 5 s. I don't hear any questions, so I'm gonna pause. Them.
So I'm gonna stop the recording and I'll see you online in the Forum.
And also